
# Technical CAB Minutes

## Meeting Information

**Location:** Discord

**Recorded:** No

**Date:** November 23, 2022

**Time:** Asynchronous

**Attendees:**

- Aaron Blankstein
- Brice Dobry
- Dan Trevino
- Daniel Fritsche
- Jamil Dhanani
- Jesse Wiley
- Mike Cohen
- Terje Norderhaug
- Thomas Osmonson

**Topic(s):**

- Vote on SIP-020 acceptance

**Materials**:

- [SIP-020 Proposal](https://github.com/obycode/sips/blob/bitwise-ops/sips/sip-020/sip-020-bitwise-ops.md)

## Meeting Notes

- SIP-020 voting was opened at 23:28 UTC and closed at 06:36 UTC, using Discord reactions within our group
  chat
- SIP author Brice Dobry abstained from vote since they submitted the PR
- Multiple changes to the SIP and accompanying implementation were requested and completed.
- Quorum is met and SIP is approved whether we include the authors or not (4
    yes, 0 no out of 8 including authors or 4 yes, 0 no out of 7 excluding
    authors)
- [Official approval added to the PR](https://github.com/stacksgov/sips/pull/106#issuecomment-1317808369)
  on 16 Nov 2022, including discussed caveats and dissenting opinion

  - Content of the approval: As the temporary chairperson of the Technical CAB (Brice Dobry abstained since they submitted the PR), this
    approval indicates official approval of this SIP by the Technical CAB.

    While there were no dissenters who voted no, there is some additional feedback
    that should be shared about this specific SIP:

    The dissenting members of the CAB would like to share the following
    opinions:

    > The added functionality is neither commonly requested by the community
    > nor a blocker for contract developers. The original proposal has several
    > red flags indicating the addition shouldn't be a priority, admitting that
    > the lack of functionality is not a problem and that the solution just would
    > be nice to have. In the discussion, Jude shares that when it comes to the
    > new functions, you can implement them today with the existing operations.
    > We should expect submitted SIPs to make the case that there is a substantial
    > problem, with use cases demonstrating an actual need for a solution.

    > I understand the core team, for some reason, considered it highly important
    > that it passed. Perhaps it will benefit marketing by propping up a note
    > about community contribution to the Stacks 2.1 implementation.

## Action Items

## Vote Outcome(s)

- Aaron Blankstein: no response
- Brice Dobry: abstain (SIP author)
- Dan Trevino: yes
- Daniel Fritsche: no response
- Jamil Dhanani: yes
- Jesse Wiley: yes
- Mike Cohen: no response (no available time)
- Terje Norderhaug: yes
- Thomas Osmonson: no response

With this vote, the turnout, the quorum and majority requirements previously set
were met and SIP-020 is approved.
