# Technical CAB Minutes

## Meeting Information

**Location:** Zoom

**Recorded:** No

**Date:** October 27, 2022

**Time:** 20:00 - 20:45 UTC

**Attendees:**

- Brice Dobry (chair)
- Dan Trevino
- Jesse Wiley
- Thomas Osmonson

**Topic(s):**

- CAB processes
- [SIP-015: Stacks Upgrade of Proof-of-Transfer and Clarity](https://github.com/stacksgov/sips/pull/95)

**Materials**:

- [Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-O5kdhkjq43nZo8lu5v7ibGrQSu1K7rIBAWEoloraQc/edit#slide=id.g1783f051b1c_0_0)

## Meeting Notes

- This was the first synchronous meeting of the CAB, so we started off with
  brief introductions of the attendees.
- CAB processes
  - Confirmed tasks of the CAB:
    1. Provide expert feedback on _Accepted_ SIPs
    2. Vote to transition SIPs from _Accepted_ to _Recommended_ or _Rejected_
  - How should we provide expert feedback on _Accepted_ SIPs (1)?
    - The members of the CAB will individually comment on the PR -- no
      coordination amongst the group is necessary for this step
  - How should we vote to transition SIPs (2)?
    - We will ultimately make a single decision, yes or no for each SIP.
    - We will require a 51% quorum of CAB members to have voted, and a 51%
      majority to determine the vote
      - As there are 9 CAB members currently, there will be a minimum of 5
        (`floor(9/2) + 1`) members required for a vote to count and if exactly 5
        vote, then the threshold is 3 (`floor(5/2) + 1`)
    - Vote will be asynchronous, via our Discord group chat
      - For the SIP-015 vote, voting will open on Monday, Oct. 31 at 11:00 UTC
        and close at 21:00 UTC.
    - The decision of the CAB will be shared via an approve/reject on the SIP's
      PR by the chairperson of the CAB
      - PR review to include comments for a majority opinion, as well as a
        dissenting opinion
      - This decision and the opinion writeups will also be recorded in the
        [sips repository](https://github.com/stacksgov/sips/tree/main/considerations/minutes/technical-cab)
  - These processes will be added to the
    [CAB's bylaws](https://github.com/stacksgov/sips/blob/main/considerations/technical.md#bylaws)
  - Discussed how code changes relate to the SIP process, and the CAB's
    responsiblity
    - The implementation / code supporting a SIP is typically a later step in
      the process
    - Evaluating the implementation of the SIP is outside the purview of this
      CAB (though its members are appropriate candidates for code reviews)
  - Discussed the need for a shared email list for the group, as well as a
    mechanism for scheduling meetings
  - Discussed an intent to setup a monthly recurring meeting for the group to
    sync up
    - Proposed Mondays, but will use some tool to help figure out best
      availability for the group
    - Additional meetings outside of this regularly scheduled meeting may be
      required for specific SIPs and will be scheduled ad-hoc
- SIP-015 discussions
  - Concerns have been expressed that this SIP is too large and contains
    unrelated items
    - Members feel that the CAB should be able to vote on individual, related
      items, not one kitchen sink SIP
    - As the SIP is already implemented, it would be difficult to make a
      substantial change like this
    - Present members agreed that it is okay to not be too strict this time, but
      we should make strong recommendations against this for the next time (and
      potentially reject for this reason in the future)
    - Ensure that we voice our concerns about the size and scope of this SIP

## Action Items

- [x] Setup mailing list
  - After the meeting, Jesse Wiley created technical-cab@stacks.org for us
  - We verified that this will work for sending calendar invites to the group as
    well
- [ ] Setup recurring meeting (Brice)
- [ ] Continue asynchronous feedback on SIP-015 PR (All)
- [ ] Update CAB bylaws with discussed items
