# Technical CAB Minutes

## Meeting Information

**Location:** Discord (async)

**Recorded:** No

**Date:**

- October 27, 2023

**Time:** 8:00am - 3:30pm EDT

**Attendees:**

- Brice Dobry (chairperson)
- Aaron Blankstein
- Dan Trevino
- Jesse Wiley
- Jesus Najera
- Mike Cohen

**Topic(s):**

- Proposal: Non-Sequential Multisig
- Proposal: Clarity DeFi Vault

**Materials**:

- [PR #152: Non-Sequential Multisig](https://github.com/stacksgov/sips/pull/152)
- [PR #153: Clarity DeFi Vault](https://github.com/stacksgov/sips/pull/153)

## 2023-10-27 Meeting Notes

Quorum is reached with 6 of 9 members participating in the discussion.

### PR #152

Several CAB members made minor comments on the PR, fixing grammatical errors and typos. No major concerns were identified, other than the missing activation, which has been added. After the vote, the author corrected the minor items pointed out by this CAB and added the "Additional Recommendations" section, which he felt was useful for clarification. The CAB did not object to this addition.

#### Vote Outcome(s)

| Name             | Vote |
| ---------------- | ---- |
| Aaron Blankstein | üëç   |
| Brice Dobry      | üëç   |
| Dan Trevino      | üëç   |
| Jesse Wiley      | üëç   |
| Jesus Najera     | üëç   |
| Mike Cohen       | üëç   |

The Technical CAB approves PR #152 with 6 yes votes.

### PR #153

Aaron started the discussion on this PR, pointing out several technical errors, missing information, or unclear wording in the text. The rest of the CAB agreed with this assessment and feels that these are fixable errors, so we would like to revisit this vote after these items are addressed.

#### Vote Outcome(s)

| Name             | Vote |
| ---------------- | ---- |
| Aaron Blankstein | ‚ôªÔ∏è   |
| Brice Dobry      | ‚ôªÔ∏è   |
| Dan Trevino      | ‚ôªÔ∏è   |
| Jesse Wiley      | ‚ôªÔ∏è   |
| Jesus Najera     | ‚ôªÔ∏è   |
| Mike Cohen       | ‚ôªÔ∏è   |

The Technical CAB votes to revisit PR #153 after the items pointed out in the PR have been addressed.
